QUERY ID: 2
QUESTION: What are the basic parts of a neuron?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       6.1 What Is Learning?
Pages:         194-194
Hybrid Score:  0.0314
Raw Text:
learning—classical conditioning, operant conditioning, and observational learning Learning Birds build nests and migrate as winter approaches. Infants suckle for nourishment. Dogs shake water off wet fur. Salmon swim upstream to spawn, and spiders spin intricate webs. What do these seemingly unrelated behaviors have in common? They all are unlearned behaviors. Both instincts and reflexes are innate (unlearned) behaviors that organisms are born with. Reflexes are a motor or neural reaction to a specific stimulus in the environment. They tend to be simpler than instincts, involve the activity of specific body parts and systems (e.g., the knee-jerk reflex and the contraction of the pupil in bright light), and involve more primitive centers of the central nervous system (e.g., the spinal cord and the medulla). In contrast, instincts are innate behaviors that are triggered by a broader range of events, such as maturation and the change of seasons. They are more complex patterns of behavior, involve movement of the organism as a whole (e.g., sexual activity and migration), and involve higher brain centers. Both reflexes and instincts help an organism adapt to its environment and do not have to be learned. For example, every healthy human baby has a sucking reflex, present at birth. Babies are born knowing how to suck on a nipple, whether artificial (from a bottle) or human. Nobody teaches the baby to suck, just as no one teaches a sea turtle hatchling to move toward the ocean. Learning, like reflexes and instincts, allows an organism to adapt to its environment. But unlike instincts and reflexes, learned behaviors involve change and experience: learning is a relatively permanent change in behavior or knowledge that results from experience. In contrast to the innate behaviors discussed above, learning involves acquiring knowledge and skills through experience. Looking back at our surfing scenario, Julian will have to spend much more time training with his surfboard before he learns how to ride the waves like his father. Learning to surf, as well as any complex learning process (e.g., learning about the discipline of psychology), involves a complex interaction of conscious and unconscious processes. Learning has traditionally been studied in terms of its simplest components—the associations our minds automatically make between events. Our minds have a natural tendency to connect events that occur closely together or in sequence. Associative learning occurs when an organism makes connections between stimuli or events that occur together in the environment. You will see that associative learning is central to all three basic learning processes discussed in this chapter; classical conditioning tends to involve unconscious processes, operant conditioning tends to involve conscious processes, and observational learning adds social and cognitive layers to all the basic associative processes, both conscious and unconscious.

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       Chapter Outline
Pages:         83-83
Hybrid Score:  0.0307
Raw Text:
FIGURE 3.1 Different brain imaging techniques provide scientists with insight into different aspects of how the human brain functions. Left to right, PET scan (positron emission tomography), CT scan (computerized tomography), and fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) are three types of scans. (credit “left”: modification of work by Health and Human Services Department, National Institutes of Health; credit “center": modification of work by "Aceofhearts1968"/Wikimedia Commons; credit “right”: modification of work by Kim J, Matthews NL, Park S.) INTRODUCTION CHAPTER OUTLINE 3.1 Human Genetics 3.2 Cells of the Nervous System 3.3 Parts of the Nervous System 3.4 The Brain and Spinal Cord 3.5 The Endocrine System Have you ever taken a device apart to find out how it works? Many of us have done so, whether to attempt a repair or simply to satisfy our curiosity. A device’s internal workings are often distinct from its user interface on the outside. For example, we don’t think about microchips and circuits when we turn up the volume on a mobile phone; instead, we think about getting the volume just right. Similarly, the inner workings of the human body are often distinct from the external expression of those workings. It is the job of psychologists to find the connection between these—for example, to figure out how the firings of millions of neurons become a thought. This chapter strives to explain the biological mechanisms that underlie behavior. These physiological and anatomical foundations are the basis for many areas of psychology. In this chapter, you will learn how genetics influence both physiological and psychological traits. You will become familiar with the structure and function of the nervous system. And, finally, you will learn how the nervous system interacts with the endocrine system. 3.1 Human Genetics LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the basic principles of the theory of evolution by natural selection • Describe the differences between genotype and phenotype • Discuss how gene-environment interactions are critical for expression of physical and psychological characteristics Biopsychology

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       Chapter 3 Biopsychology
Pages:         83-83
Hybrid Score:  0.0300
Raw Text:
FIGURE 3.1 Different brain imaging techniques provide scientists with insight into different aspects of how the human brain functions. Left to right, PET scan (positron emission tomography), CT scan (computerized tomography), and fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) are three types of scans. (credit “left”: modification of work by Health and Human Services Department, National Institutes of Health; credit “center": modification of work by "Aceofhearts1968"/Wikimedia Commons; credit “right”: modification of work by Kim J, Matthews NL, Park S.) INTRODUCTION CHAPTER OUTLINE 3.1 Human Genetics 3.2 Cells of the Nervous System 3.3 Parts of the Nervous System 3.4 The Brain and Spinal Cord 3.5 The Endocrine System Have you ever taken a device apart to find out how it works? Many of us have done so, whether to attempt a repair or simply to satisfy our curiosity. A device’s internal workings are often distinct from its user interface on the outside. For example, we don’t think about microchips and circuits when we turn up the volume on a mobile phone; instead, we think about getting the volume just right. Similarly, the inner workings of the human body are often distinct from the external expression of those workings. It is the job of psychologists to find the connection between these—for example, to figure out how the firings of millions of neurons become a thought. This chapter strives to explain the biological mechanisms that underlie behavior. These physiological and anatomical foundations are the basis for many areas of psychology. In this chapter, you will learn how genetics influence both physiological and psychological traits. You will become familiar with the structure and function of the nervous system. And, finally, you will learn how the nervous system interacts with the endocrine system. 3.1 Human Genetics LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the basic principles of the theory of evolution by natural selection • Describe the differences between genotype and phenotype • Discuss how gene-environment interactions are critical for expression of physical and psychological characteristics Biopsychology

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       3.1 Human Genetics
Pages:         83-84
Hybrid Score:  0.0293
Raw Text:
FIGURE 3.1 Different brain imaging techniques provide scientists with insight into different aspects of how the human brain functions. Left to right, PET scan (positron emission tomography), CT scan (computerized tomography), and fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) are three types of scans. (credit “left”: modification of work by Health and Human Services Department, National Institutes of Health; credit “center": modification of work by "Aceofhearts1968"/Wikimedia Commons; credit “right”: modification of work by Kim J, Matthews NL, Park S.) INTRODUCTION CHAPTER OUTLINE 3.1 Human Genetics 3.2 Cells of the Nervous System 3.3 Parts of the Nervous System 3.4 The Brain and Spinal Cord 3.5 The Endocrine System Have you ever taken a device apart to find out how it works? Many of us have done so, whether to attempt a repair or simply to satisfy our curiosity. A device’s internal workings are often distinct from its user interface on the outside. For example, we don’t think about microchips and circuits when we turn up the volume on a mobile phone; instead, we think about getting the volume just right. Similarly, the inner workings of the human body are often distinct from the external expression of those workings. It is the job of psychologists to find the connection between these—for example, to figure out how the firings of millions of neurons become a thought. This chapter strives to explain the biological mechanisms that underlie behavior. These physiological and anatomical foundations are the basis for many areas of psychology. In this chapter, you will learn how genetics influence both physiological and psychological traits. You will become familiar with the structure and function of the nervous system. And, finally, you will learn how the nervous system interacts with the endocrine system. 3.1 Human Genetics LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the basic principles of the theory of evolution by natural selection • Describe the differences between genotype and phenotype • Discuss how gene-environment interactions are critical for expression of physical and psychological characteristics Biopsychology Psychological researchers study genetics in order to better understand the biological factors that contribute to certain behaviors. While all humans share certain biological mechanisms, we are each unique. And while our bodies have many of the same parts—brains and hormones and cells with genetic codes—these are expressed in a wide variety of behaviors, thoughts, and reactions. Why do two people infected by the same disease have different outcomes: one surviving and one succumbing to the ailment? How are genetic diseases passed through family lines?

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       3.2 Cells of the Nervous System
Pages:         94-95
Hybrid Score:  0.0164
Raw Text:
the length of the axon is an electrical event, and movement of the neurotransmitter across the synaptic space represents the chemical portion of the process. However, there are some specialized connections between neurons that are entirely electrical. In such cases, the neurons are said to communicate via an electrical synapse. In these cases, two neurons physically connect to one another via gap junctions, which allows the current from one cell to pass into the next. There are far fewer electrical synapses in the brain, but those that do exist are much faster than the chemical synapses that have been described above (Connors & Long, 2004). LINK TO LEARNING Watch this video about neuronal communication (https://openstax.org/l/neuroncom) to learn more. 82 3 • Biopsychology Neurotransmitters and Drugs There are several different types of neurotransmitters released by different neurons, and we can speak in broad terms about the kinds of functions associated with different neurotransmitters (Table 3.1). Much of what psychologists know about the functions of neurotransmitters comes from research on the effects of drugs in psychological disorders. Psychologists who take a biological perspective and focus on the physiological causes of behavior assert that psychological disorders like depression and schizophrenia are associated with imbalances in one or more neurotransmitter systems. In this perspective, psychotropic medications can help improve the symptoms associated with these disorders. Psychotropic medications are drugs that treat psychiatric symptoms by restoring neurotransmitter balance. Major Neurotransmitters and How They Affect Behavior Neurotransmitter Involved in Potential Effect on Behavior Acetylcholine Muscle action, memory Increased arousal, enhanced cognition Beta-endorphin Pain, pleasure Decreased anxiety, decreased tension Dopamine Mood, sleep, learning Increased pleasure, suppressed appetite Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) Brain function, sleep Decreased anxiety, decreased tension Glutamate Memory, learning Increased learning, enhanced memory Norepinephrine Heart, intestines, alertness Increased arousal, suppressed appetite Serotonin Mood, sleep Modulated mood, suppressed appetite TABLE 3.1 Psychoactive drugs can act as agonists or antagonists for a given neurotransmitter system. Agonists are chemicals that mimic a neurotransmitter at the receptor site. An antagonist, on the other hand, blocks or impedes the normal activity of a neurotransmitter at the receptor. Agonists and antagonists represent drugs that are prescribed to correct the specific neurotransmitter imbalances underlying a person’s condition. For example, Parkinson's disease, a progressive nervous system disorder, is associated with low levels of dopamine. Therefore, a common treatment strategy for Parkinson's disease involves using dopamine agonists, which mimic the effects of dopamine by binding to dopamine receptors. Certain symptoms of schizophrenia are associated with overactive dopamine neurotransmission.

