QUERY ID: 42
QUESTION: What are major themes in industrial-organizational psychology?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       13.1 What Is Industrial and Organizational Psychology?
Pages:         459-461
Hybrid Score:  0.0304
Raw Text:
psychologists formally formed the group in 2012 and have approximately 300 members worldwide. Although this is a small number, the group continues to expand. The 13.1 • What Is Industrial and Organizational Psychology? 447 group seeks to help marginalized members of society, such as people with low income, find work. In addition, they help to determine ways to deliver humanitarian aid during major catastrophes. The Humanitarian Work Psychology group can also reach out to those in the local community who do not have the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to be able to find gainful employment that would enable them to not need to receive aid. In both cases, humanitarian work psychologists try to help the underserved individuals develop KSAs that they can use to improve their lives and their current situations. When ensuring these underserved individuals receive training or education, the focus is on skills that, once learned, will never be forgotten and can serve individuals throughout their lifetimes as they seek employment (APA, 2016). Table 13.1 summarizes the main fields in I-O psychology, their focuses, and jobs within each field. Fields of Industrial Organizational Psychology Field of I-O Psychology Description Types of Jobs Industrial Psychology Specializes and focuses on the retention of employees and hiring practices to ensure the least number of firings and the greatest number of hirings relative to the organization’s size. Personnel Analyst Instructional Designer Professor Research Analyst Organizational Psychology Works with the relationships that employees develop with their organizations and conversely that their organization develops with them. In addition, studies the relationships that develop between co-workers and how that is influenced by organizational norms. HR Research Specialist Professor Project Consultant Personnel Psychologist Test Developer Training Developer Leadership Developer Talent Developer TABLE 13.1 448 13 • Industrial-Organizational Psychology Field of I-O Psychology Description Types of Jobs Human Factors and Engineering Researches advances and changes in technology in an effort to improve the way technology is used by consumers, whether with consumer products, technologies, transportation, work environments, or communications. Seeks to be better able to predict the ways in which people can and will utilize technology and products in an effort to provide improved safety and reliability. Professor Ergonomist Safety Scientist Project Consultant Inspector Research Scientist Marketer Product Development Humanitarian Work Psychology Works to improve the conditions of individuals who have faced serious disaster or who are part of an underserved population. Focuses on labor relations, enhancing public health services, effects on populations due to climate change, recession, and diseases.

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       1.3 Contemporary Psychology
Pages:         35-37
Hybrid Score:  0.0302
Raw Text:
it can be argued not to cause harm and, in general, requiring informed consent of participants. 1.3 • Contemporary Psychology 23 FIGURE 1.14 Stanley Milgram’s research demonstrated just how far people will go in obeying orders from an authority figure. This advertisement was used to recruit subjects for his research. Industrial-Organizational Psychology Industrial-Organizational psychology (I-O psychology) is a subfield of psychology that applies psychological theories, principles, and research findings in industrial and organizational settings. I-O psychologists are often involved in issues related to personnel management, organizational structure, and workplace environment. Businesses often seek the aid of I-O psychologists to make the best hiring decisions as well as to create an environment that results in high levels of employee productivity and efficiency. In addition to its applied nature, I-O psychology also involves conducting scientific research on behavior within I-O settings (Riggio, 2013). Health Psychology Health psychology focuses on how health is affected by the interaction of biological, psychological, and sociocultural factors. This particular approach is known as the biopsychosocial model (Figure 1.15). Health psychologists are interested in helping individuals achieve better health through public policy, education, intervention, and research. Health psychologists might conduct research that explores the relationship between one’s genetic makeup, patterns of behavior, relationships, psychological stress, and health. They may research effective ways to motivate people to address patterns of behavior that contribute to poorer health (MacDonald, 2013). 24 1 • Introduction to Psychology FIGURE 1.15 The biopsychosocial model suggests that health/illness is determined by an interaction of these three factors. Sport and Exercise Psychology Researchers in sport and exercise psychology study the psychological aspects of sport performance, including motivation and performance anxiety, and the effects of sport on mental and emotional wellbeing. Research is also conducted on similar topics as they relate to physical exercise in general. The discipline also includes topics that are broader than sport and exercise but that are related to interactions between mental and physical performance under demanding conditions, such as fire fighting, military operations, artistic performance, and surgery. Clinical Psychology Clinical psychology is the area of psychology that focuses on the diagnosis and treatment of psychological disorders and other problematic patterns of behavior. As such, it is generally considered to be a more applied area within psychology; however, some clinicians are also actively engaged in scientific research. Counseling psychology is a similar discipline that focuses on emotional, social, vocational, and health-related outcomes in individuals who are considered psychologically healthy. As mentioned earlier, both Freud and Rogers provided perspectives that have been influential in shaping how clinicians interact with people seeking psychotherapy. While aspects of the psychoanalytic theory are still found among some of today’s therapists who are trained from a psychodynamic perspective, Rogers’s ideas about client-centered therapy have been especially influential in shaping how many clinicians operate.

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       11.3 Neo-Freudians: Adler, Erikson, Jung, and Horney
Pages:         382-383
Hybrid Score:  0.0167
Raw Text:
Carl Jung (Figure 11.9) was a Swiss psychiatrist and protégé of Freud, who later split off from Freud and developed his own theory, which he called analytical psychology. The focus of analytical psychology is on working to balance opposing forces of conscious and unconscious thought and experience within one’s personality. According to Jung, this work is a continuous learning process—mainly occurring in the second half of life—of becoming aware of unconscious elements and integrating them into consciousness. 370 11 • Personality FIGURE 11.9 Carl Jung was interested in exploring the collective unconscious. Jung’s split from Freud was based on two major disagreements. First, Jung, like Adler and Erikson, did not accept that sexual drive was the primary motivator in a person’s mental life. Second, although Jung agreed with Freud’s concept of a personal unconscious, he thought it to be incomplete. In addition to the personal unconscious, Jung focused on the collective unconscious. The collective unconscious is a universal version of the personal unconscious, holding mental patterns, or memory traces, which are common to all of us (Jung, 1928). These ancestral memories, which Jung called archetypes, are represented by universal themes in various cultures, as expressed through literature, art, and dreams (Jung). Jung said that these themes reflect common experiences of people the world over, such as facing death, becoming independent, and striving for mastery. Jung (1964) believed that through biology, each person is handed down the same themes and that the same types of symbols—such as the hero, the maiden, the sage, and the trickster—are present in the folklore and fairy tales of every culture. In Jung’s view, the task of integrating these unconscious archetypal aspects of the self is part of the self-realization process in the second half of life. With this orientation toward self-realization, Jung parted ways with Freud’s belief that personality is determined solely by past events and anticipated the humanistic movement with its emphasis on self- actualization and orientation toward the future. Jung also proposed two attitudes or approaches toward life: extroversion and introversion (Jung, 1923) (Table 11.3). These ideas are considered Jung’s most important contributions to the field of personality psychology, as almost all models of personality now include these concepts. If you are an extrovert, then you are a person who is energized by being outgoing and socially oriented: You derive your energy from being around others. If you are an introvert, then you are a person who may be quiet and reserved, or you may be social, but your energy is derived from your inner psychic activity. Jung believed a balance between extroversion and introversion best served the goal of self-realization. 11.3 • Neo-Freudians: Adler, Erikson, Jung, and Horney 371 Introverts and Extroverts Introvert Extrovert Energized by being alone Energized by being with others Avoids attention Seeks attention Speaks slowly and softly Speaks quickly and loudly Thinks before speaking Thinks out loud Stays on one topic Jumps from topic to topic Prefers written communication Prefers verbal communication Pays attention easily Distractible Cautious Acts first, thinks later TABLE 11.3 Another concept proposed by Jung was the persona, which he referred to as a mask that we adopt.

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       13.1 What Is Industrial and Organizational Psychology?
Pages:         458-458
Hybrid Score:  0.0161
Raw Text:
13.1 What Is Industrial and Organizational Psychology? LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Understand the scope of study in the field of industrial and organizational psychology • Describe the history of industrial and organizational psychology In 2019, people who worked in the United States spent an average of about 42–54 hours per week working (Bureau of Labor Statistics—U.S. Department of Labor, 2019). Sleeping was the only other activity they spent more time on with an average of about 43–62 hours per week. The workday is a significant portion of workers’ time and energy. It impacts their lives and their family’s lives in positive and negative physical and psychological ways. Industrial and organizational (I-O) psychology is a branch of psychology that studies how human behavior and psychology affect work and how they are affected by work. Industrial and organizational psychologists work in four main contexts: academia, government, consulting firms, and business. Most I-O psychologists have a master’s or doctorate degree. The field of I-O psychology can be divided into three broad areas (Figure 13.2 and Figure 13.3): industrial, organizational, and human factors. Industrial psychology is concerned with describing job requirements and assessing individuals for their ability to meet those requirements. In addition, once employees are hired, industrial psychology studies and develops ways to train, evaluate, and respond to those evaluations. As a consequence of its concern for candidate characteristics, industrial psychology must also consider issues of legality regarding discrimination in hiring. Organizational psychology is a discipline interested in how the relationships among employees affect those employees and the performance of a business. This includes studying worker satisfaction, motivation, and commitment. This field also studies management, leadership, and organizational culture, as well as how an organization’s structures, management and leadership styles, social norms, and role expectations affect individual behavior. As a result of its interest in worker wellbeing and relationships, organizational psychology also considers the subjects of harassment, including sexual harassment, and workplace violence. Human factors psychology is the study of how workers interact with the tools of work and how to design those tools to optimize workers’ productivity, safety, and health. These studies can involve interactions as straightforward as the fit of a desk, chair, and computer to a human having to sit on the chair at the desk using the computer for several hours each day. They can also include the examination of how humans interact with complex displays and their ability to interpret them accurately and quickly. In Europe, this field is referred to as ergonomics.

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       Personal Application Questions
Pages:         46-46
Hybrid Score:  0.0156
Raw Text:
b. bachelor’s c. master’s d. doctoral Critical Thinking Questions 16 . Why do you think psychology courses like this one are often requirements of so many different programs of study? 17 . Why do you think many people might be skeptical about psychology being a science? 18 . How did the object of study in psychology change over the history of the field since the 19th century? 19 . In part, what aspect of psychology was the behaviorist approach to psychology a reaction to? 20 . Given the incredible diversity among the various areas of psychology that were described in this section, how do they all fit together? 21 . What are the potential ethical concerns associated with Milgram’s research on obedience? 22 . Why is an undergraduate education in psychology so helpful in a number of different lines of work? 23 . Other than a potentially greater salary, what would be the reasons an individual would continue on to get a graduate degree in psychology? Personal Application Questions 24 . Why are you taking this course? What do you hope to learn about during this course? 25 . Freud is probably one of the most well-known historical figures in psychology. Where have you encountered references to Freud or his ideas about the role that the unconscious mind plays in determining conscious behavior? 26 . Now that you’ve been briefly introduced to some of the major areas within psychology, which are you most interested in learning more about? Why? 27 . Which of the career options in the field of psychology is most appealing to you? 34 1 • Critical Thinking Questions

