QUERY ID: 43
QUESTION: What is the role of social norms in behavior?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       12.2 Self-presentation
Pages:         418-419
Hybrid Score:  0.0328
Raw Text:
12.8 Being a student is just one of the many social roles you have. (credit: modification of work by “Rural Institute”/Flickr) Social roles, and our related behavior, can vary across different settings. How do you behave when you are engaging in the role of a child attending a family function? Now imagine how you behave when you are engaged in the role of employee at your workplace. It is very likely that your behavior will be different. Perhaps you are more relaxed and outgoing with your family, making jokes and doing silly things. But at your workplace you might speak more professionally, and although you may be friendly, you are also serious and focused on getting the work completed. These are examples of how our social roles influence and often dictate our behavior to the extent that identity and personality can vary with context (that is, in different social groups) (Malloy, Albright, Kenny, Agatstein & Winquist, 1997). 406 12 • Social Psychology Social Norms As discussed previously, social roles are defined by a culture’s shared knowledge of what is expected behavior of an individual in a specific role. This shared knowledge comes from social norms. A social norm is a group’s expectation of what is appropriate and acceptable behavior for its members—how they are supposed to behave and think (Deutsch & Gerard, 1955; Berkowitz, 2004). How are we expected to act? What are we expected to talk about? What are we expected to wear? In our discussion of social roles we noted that colleges have social norms for students’ behavior in the role of student and workplaces have social norms for employees’ behaviors in the role of employee. Social norms are everywhere including in families, gangs, and on social media outlets. What are some social norms on Instagram? Tweens, Teens, and Social Norms My 11-year-old daughter, Janelle, recently told me she needed shorts and shirts for the summer, and that she wanted me to take her to a store at the mall that is popular with preteens and teens to buy them. I have noticed that many girls have clothes from that store, so I tried teasing her. I said, “All the shirts say ‘Aero’ on the front. If you are wearing a shirt like that and you have a substitute teacher, and the other girls are all wearing that type of shirt, won’t the substitute teacher think you are all named ‘Aero’?” My daughter replied, in typical 11-year-old fashion, “Mom, you are not funny.

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       12.2 Self-presentation
Pages:         418-418
Hybrid Score:  0.0325
Raw Text:
12.2 Self-presentation LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe social roles and how they influence behavior • Explain what social norms are and how they influence behavior • Define script • Describe the findings and criticisms of Zimbardo’s Stanford prison experiment As you’ve learned, social psychology is the study of how people affect one another’s thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. We have discussed situational perspectives and social psychology’s emphasis on the ways in which a person’s environment, including culture and other social influences, affect behavior. In this section, we examine situational forces that have a strong influence on human behavior including social roles, social norms, and scripts. We discuss how humans use the social environment as a source of information, or cues, on how to behave. Situational influences on our behavior have important consequences, such as whether we will help a stranger in an emergency or how we would behave in an unfamiliar environment. Social Roles One major social determinant of human behavior is our social roles. A social role is a pattern of behavior that is expected of a person in a given setting or group (Hare, 2003). Each one of us has several social roles. You may be, at the same time, a student, a parent, an aspiring teacher, a son or daughter, a spouse, and a lifeguard. How do these social roles influence your behavior? Social roles are defined by culturally shared knowledge. That is, nearly everyone in a given culture knows what behavior is expected of a person in a given role. For example, what is the social role for a student? If you look around a college classroom you will likely see students engaging in studious behavior, taking notes, listening to the professor, reading the textbook, and sitting quietly at their desks (Figure 12.8). Of course you may see students deviating from the expected studious behavior such as texting on their phones or using Facebook on their laptops, but in all cases, the students that you observe are attending class—a part of the social role of students. FIGURE 12.8 Being a student is just one of the many social roles you have. (credit: modification of work by “Rural Institute”/Flickr) Social roles, and our related behavior, can vary across different settings. How do you behave when you are engaging in the role of a child attending a family function?

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       Review Questions
Pages:         604-605
Hybrid Score:  0.0161
Raw Text:
are impulsive, deceitful, irresponsible, and unburdened by any sense of guilt. Genetic factors and socialization both appear to be important in the origin of antisocial personality disorder. Research has also shown that those with this disorder do not experience emotions the way most other people do. Review Questions 1 . In the harmful dysfunction definition of psychological disorders, dysfunction involves ________. a. the inability of a psychological mechanism to perform its function b. the breakdown of social order in one’s community c. communication problems in one’s immediate family d. all the above 2 . Patterns of inner experience and behavior are thought to reflect the presence of a psychological disorder if they ________. a. are highly atypical b. lead to significant distress and impairment in one’s life c. embarrass one’s friends and/or family d. violate the norms of one’s culture 3 . The letters in the abbreviation DSM-5 stand for ________. a. Diseases and Statistics Manual of Medicine 592 15 • Review Questions b. Diagnosable Standards Manual of Mental Disorders c. Diseases and Symptoms Manual of Mental Disorders d. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 4 . A study based on over 9,000 U. S. residents found that the most prevalent disorder was ________. a. major depressive disorder b. social anxiety disorder c. obsessive-compulsive disorder d. specific phobia 5 . The diathesis-stress model presumes that psychopathology results from ________. a. vulnerability and adverse experiences b. biochemical factors c. chemical imbalances and structural abnormalities in the brain d. adverse childhood experiences 6 . Dr. Anastasia believes that major depressive disorder is caused by an over-secretion of cortisol. His view on the cause of major depressive disorder reflects a ________ perspective. a. psychological b. supernatural c. biological d. diathesis-stress 7 . In which of the following anxiety disorders is the person in a continuous state of excessive, pointless worry and apprehension? a. panic disorder b. generalized anxiety disorder c. agoraphobia d. social anxiety disorder 8 . Which of the following would constitute a safety behavior? a. encountering a phobic stimulus in the company of other people b. avoiding a field where snakes are likely to be present c. avoiding eye contact d. worrying as a distraction from painful memories 9 . Which of the following best illustrates a compulsion? a. mentally counting backward from 1,000 b. persistent fear of germs c. thoughts of harming a neighbor d. falsely believing that a spouse has been cheating 10 . Research indicates that the symptoms of OCD ________. a.

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       12.4 Conformity, Compliance, and Obedience
Pages:         427-428
Hybrid Score:  0.0154
Raw Text:
technique would be applied to an individual in the market for a used car who decides to buy a fully loaded new car. Why? Because the salesperson convinced the buyer that they need a car that has all of the safety features that were not available in the used car. 12.4 Conformity, Compliance, and Obedience LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Explain the Asch effect • Define conformity and types of social influence • Describe Stanley Milgram’s experiment and its implications • Define groupthink, social facilitation, and social loafing In this section, we discuss additional ways in which people influence others. The topics of conformity, social influence, obedience, and group processes demonstrate the power of the social situation to change our thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. We begin this section with a discussion of a famous social psychology experiment that demonstrated how susceptible humans are to outside social pressures. 12.4 • Conformity, Compliance, and Obedience 415 Conformity Solomon Asch conducted several experiments in the 1950s to determine how people are affected by the thoughts and behaviors of other people. In one study, a group of participants was shown a series of printed line segments of different lengths: a, b, and c (Figure 12.17). Participants were then shown a fourth line segment: x. They were asked to identify which line segment from the first group (a, b, or c) most closely resembled the fourth line segment in length. FIGURE 12.17 These line segments illustrate the judgment task in Asch’s conformity study. Which line on the right—a, b, or c—is the same length as line x on the left? Each group of participants had only one true, naïve subject. The remaining members of the group were confederates of the researcher. A confederate is a person who is aware of the experiment and works for the researcher. Confederates are used to manipulate social situations as part of the research design, and the true, naïve participants believe that confederates are, like them, uninformed participants in the experiment. In Asch’s study, the confederates identified a line segment that was obviously shorter than the target line—a wrong answer. The naïve participant then had to identify aloud the line segment that best matched the target line segment. How often do you think the true participant aligned with the confederates’ response? That is, how often do you think the group influenced the participant, and the participant gave the wrong answer? Asch (1955) found that 76% of participants conformed to group pressure at least once by indicating the incorrect line.

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       Critical Thinking Questions
Pages:         46-46
Hybrid Score:  0.0154
Raw Text:
b. bachelor’s c. master’s d. doctoral Critical Thinking Questions 16 . Why do you think psychology courses like this one are often requirements of so many different programs of study? 17 . Why do you think many people might be skeptical about psychology being a science? 18 . How did the object of study in psychology change over the history of the field since the 19th century? 19 . In part, what aspect of psychology was the behaviorist approach to psychology a reaction to? 20 . Given the incredible diversity among the various areas of psychology that were described in this section, how do they all fit together? 21 . What are the potential ethical concerns associated with Milgram’s research on obedience? 22 . Why is an undergraduate education in psychology so helpful in a number of different lines of work? 23 . Other than a potentially greater salary, what would be the reasons an individual would continue on to get a graduate degree in psychology? Personal Application Questions 24 . Why are you taking this course? What do you hope to learn about during this course? 25 . Freud is probably one of the most well-known historical figures in psychology. Where have you encountered references to Freud or his ideas about the role that the unconscious mind plays in determining conscious behavior? 26 . Now that you’ve been briefly introduced to some of the major areas within psychology, which are you most interested in learning more about? Why? 27 . Which of the career options in the field of psychology is most appealing to you? 34 1 • Critical Thinking Questions

