QUERY ID: 6
QUESTION: What are the three stages of memory?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       8.1 How Memory Functions
Pages:         262-262
Hybrid Score:  0.0317
Raw Text:
semantic encoding be beneficial to you as you attempt to memorize the concepts in this chapter? Storage Once the information has been encoded, we have to somehow retain it. Our brains take the encoded information and place it in storage. Storage is the creation of a permanent record of information. In order for a memory to go into storage (i.e., long-term memory), it has to pass through three distinct stages: Sensory Memory, Short-Term Memory, and finally Long-Term Memory. These stages were first proposed by Richard Atkinson and Richard Shiffrin (1968). Their model of human memory (Figure 8.4), called Atkinson and Shiffrin's model, is based on the belief that we process memories in the same way that a computer processes information. FIGURE 8.4 According to the Atkinson-Shiffrin model of memory, information passes through three distinct stages in order for it to be stored in long-term memory. Atkinson and Shiffrin's model is not the only model of memory. Baddeley and Hitch (1974) proposed a working memory model in which short-term memory has different forms. In their model, storing memories in short- term memory is like opening different files on a computer and adding information. The working memory files hold a limited amount of information. The type of short-term memory (or computer file) depends on the type of information received. There are memories in visual-spatial form, as well as memories of spoken or written material, and they are stored in three short-term systems: a visuospatial sketchpad, an episodic buffer (Baddeley, 2000), and a phonological loop. According to Baddeley and Hitch, a central executive part of memory supervises or controls the flow of information to and from the three short-term systems, and the central executive is responsible for moving information into long-term memory. Sensory Memory In the Atkinson-Shiffrin model, stimuli from the environment are processed first in sensory memory: storage of brief sensory events, such as sights, sounds, and tastes. It is very brief storage—up to a couple of seconds. We are constantly bombarded with sensory information. We cannot absorb all of it, or even most of it. And most of it has no impact on our lives. For example, what was your professor wearing the last class period? As long as the professor was dressed appropriately, it does not really matter what she was wearing. Sensory information about sights, sounds, smells, and even textures, which we do not view as valuable information, we discard. If we view something as valuable, the information will move into our short-term memory system. Short-Term Memory Short-term memory (STM) is a temporary storage system that processes incoming sensory memory.

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       8.1 How Memory Functions
Pages:         260-261
Hybrid Score:  0.0302
Raw Text:
8.1 How Memory Functions LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Discuss the three basic functions of memory • Describe the three stages of memory storage • Describe and distinguish between procedural and declarative memory and semantic and episodic memory Memory is an information processing system; therefore, we often compare it to a computer. Memory is the set of processes used to encode, store, and retrieve information over different periods of time (Figure 8.2). FIGURE 8.2 Encoding involves the input of information into the memory system. Storage is the retention of the encoded information. Retrieval, or getting the information out of memory and back into awareness, is the third function. LINK TO LEARNING Watch this video about the neuroscience of memory (https://openstax.org/l/unexpectfact) to learn more. Encoding We get information into our brains through a process called encoding, which is the input of information into the memory system. Once we receive sensory information from the environment, our brains label or code it. We organize the information with other similar information and connect new concepts to existing concepts. Encoding information occurs through automatic processing and effortful processing. If someone asks you what you ate for lunch today, more than likely you could recall this information quite easily. This is known as automatic processing, or the encoding of details like time, space, frequency, and the meaning of words. Automatic processing is usually done without any conscious awareness. Recalling the last time you studied for a test is another example of automatic processing. But what about the actual test material you studied? It probably required a lot of work and attention on your part in order to encode that information. This is known as effortful processing (Figure 8.3). FIGURE 8.3 When you first learn new skills such as driving a car, you have to put forth effort and attention to encode information about how to start a car, how to brake, how to handle a turn, and so on. Once you know how to drive, you can encode additional information about this skill automatically. (credit: Robert Couse-Baker) What are the most effective ways to ensure that important memories are well encoded? Even a simple 248 8 • Memory sentence is easier to recall when it is meaningful (Anderson, 1984). Read the following sentences (Bransford & McCarrell, 1974), then look away and count backwards from 30 by threes to zero, and then try to write down the sentences (no peeking back at this page!). 1. The notes were sour because the seams split.

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       4.3 Stages of Sleep
Pages:         129-129
Hybrid Score:  0.0167
Raw Text:
certain aspects of sleep (Walker, 2009). LINK TO LEARNING Watch this brief video about the relationship between sleep and memory (https://openstax.org/l/sleepmemory) to learn more. 4.3 Stages of Sleep LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Differentiate between REM and non-REM sleep • Describe the differences between the three stages of non-REM sleep • Understand the role that REM and non-REM sleep play in learning and memory Sleep is not a uniform state of being. Instead, sleep is composed of several different stages that can be differentiated from one another by the patterns of brain wave activity that occur during each stage. While awake, our brain wave activity is dominated by beta waves. As compared to the brain wave patterns while asleep, beta waves have the highest frequency (13–30 Hz) and lowest amplitude, and they tend to show more variability. As we begin to fall asleep, our brain wave activity changes. These changes can be visualized using an EEG and are distinguished from one another by both the frequency and amplitude of the brain wave. The frequency of a brain wave is how many brain waves occur in a second, and frequency is measured in Hertz (Hz). Amplitude is the height of the brain wave (Figure 4.7). Sleep can be divided into two different general phases: REM sleep and non-REM (NREM) sleep. Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is characterized by darting movements of the eyes under closed eyelids. Brain waves during REM sleep appear very similar to brain waves during wakefulness. In contrast, non-REM (NREM) sleep is subdivided into three stages distinguished from each other and from wakefulness by characteristic patterns of brain waves. The first three stages of sleep are NREM sleep, typically followed by REM sleep. In this section, we will discuss each of these stages of sleep and their associated patterns of brain wave activity. FIGURE 4.7 Brainwave activity changes dramatically across the different stages of sleep. (credit "sleeping": modification of work by Ryan Vaarsi) NREM Stages of Sleep As we begin to fall asleep, we enter NREM sleep, and brain wave patterns decrease in frequency and increase in amplitude. The first stage of NREM sleep is known as stage 1 sleep. Stage 1 sleep is a transitional phase that occurs between wakefulness and sleep, the period during which we drift off to sleep. During this time, there is 4.3 • Stages of Sleep 117 a slowdown in both the rates of respiration and heartbeat.

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       Review Questions
Pages:         329-329
Hybrid Score:  0.0164
Raw Text:
studied by developmental psychologists. They view development as a lifelong process that can be studied scientifically across three developmental domains: physical, cognitive development, and psychosocial. There are several theories of development that focus on the following issues: whether development is continuous or discontinuous, whether development follows one course or many, and the relative influence of nature versus nurture on development. 9.2 Lifespan Theories There are many theories regarding how babies and children grow and develop into happy, healthy adults. Sigmund Freud suggested that we pass through a series of psychosexual stages in which our energy is focused on certain erogenous zones on the body. Eric Erikson modified Freud’s ideas and suggested a theory of psychosocial development. Erikson said that our social interactions and successful completion of social tasks shape our sense of self. Jean Piaget proposed a theory of cognitive development that explains how children think and reason as they move through various stages. Finally, Lawrence Kohlberg turned his attention to moral development. He said that we pass through three levels of moral thinking that build on our cognitive development. 9.3 Stages of Development At conception the egg and sperm cell are united to form a zygote, which will begin to divide rapidly. This marks the beginning of the first stage of prenatal development (germinal stage), which lasts about two weeks. Then the zygote implants itself into the lining of the uterus, marking the beginning of the second stage of prenatal development (embryonic stage), which lasts about six weeks. The embryo begins to develop body and organ structures, and the neural tube forms, which will later become the brain and spinal cord. The third phase of prenatal development (fetal stage) begins at 9 weeks and lasts until birth. The body, brain, and organs grow rapidly during this stage. During all stages of pregnancy it is important that the parent receive prenatal care to reduce health risks to themself and to the developing baby. Newborn infants weigh about 7.5 pounds. Doctors assess a newborn’s reflexes, such as the sucking, rooting, and Moro reflexes. Our physical, cognitive, and psychosocial skills grow and change as we move through developmental stages from infancy through late adulthood. Attachment in infancy is a critical component of healthy development. Parenting styles have been found to have an effect on childhood outcomes of well-being. The transition from adolescence to adulthood can be challenging due to the timing of puberty, and due to the extended amount of time spent in emerging adulthood. Although physical decline begins in middle adulthood, cognitive decline does not begin until later.

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       9.3 Stages of Development
Pages:         304-305
Hybrid Score:  0.0161
Raw Text:
FIGURE 9.6 Kohlberg identified three levels of moral reasoning: pre-conventional, conventional, and post- conventional: Each level is associated with increasingly complex stages of moral development. It is important to realize that even those people who have the most sophisticated, post-conventional reasons for some choices may make other choices for the simplest of pre-conventional reasons. Many psychologists agree with Kohlberg's theory of moral development but point out that moral reasoning is very different from moral behavior. Sometimes what we say we would do in a situation is not what we actually do in that situation. In other words, we might “talk the talk,” but not “walk the walk.” How does this theory apply to people of different genders? Kohlberg (1969) felt that more men than women move past stage four in their moral development. He went on to note that women seem to be deficient in their moral reasoning abilities. These ideas were not well received by Carol Gilligan, a research assistant of Kohlberg, who consequently developed her own ideas of moral development. In her groundbreaking book, In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women’s Development, Gilligan (1982) criticized her former mentor’s theory because it was based only on upper class White men and boys. She argued that women are not deficient in their moral reasoning—she proposed that different genders reason differently. Girls and women focus more on staying connected and the importance of interpersonal relationships. Therefore, in the Heinz dilemma, many girls and women respond that Heinz should not steal the medicine. Their reasoning is that if he steals the medicine, is arrested, and is put in jail, then he and his wife will be separated, and she could die while he is still in prison. 9.3 Stages of Development LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: • Describe the stages of prenatal development and recognize the importance of prenatal care • Appraise physical, cognitive, and emotional development that occurs from infancy through childhood • Compare and contrast physical, cognitive, and emotional development that occurs during adolescence • Examine physical, cognitive, and emotional development that occurs in adulthood From the moment we are born until the moment we die, we continue to develop. As discussed at the beginning of this chapter, developmental psychologists often divide our development into 292 9 • Lifespan Development three areas: physical development, cognitive development, and psychosocial development. Mirroring Erikson’s stages, lifespan development is divided into different stages that are based on age. We will discuss prenatal, infant, child, adolescent, and adult development. Prenatal Development How did you come to be who you are?

