QUERY ID: eval_27
QUESTION: What is the primary focus of lifespan development studies?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       Chapter 9 Lifespan Development
Pages:         291-291
Hybrid Score:  0.0320
Raw Text:
FIGURE 9.1 How have you changed since childhood? How are you the same? What will your life be like 25 years from now? Fifty years from now? Lifespan development studies how you change as well as how you remain the same over the course of your life. (credit: modification of work by Giles Cook) INTRODUCTION CHAPTER OUTLINE 9.1 What Is Lifespan Development? 9.2 Lifespan Theories 9.3 Stages of Development 9.4 Death and Dying Welcome to the story of your life. In this chapter we explore the fascinating tale of how you have grown and developed into the person you are today. We also look at some ideas about who you will grow into tomorrow. Yours is a story of lifespan development (Figure 9.1), from the start of life to the end. The process of human growth and development is more obvious in infancy and childhood, yet your development is happening this moment and will continue, minute by minute, for the rest of your life. Who you are today and who you will be in the future depends on a blend of genetics, environment, culture, relationships, and more, as you continue through each phase of life. You have experienced firsthand much of what is discussed in this chapter. Now consider what psychological science has to say about your physical, cognitive, and psychosocial development, from the womb to the tomb. Lifespan Development

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       9.3 Stages of Development
Pages:         305-305
Hybrid Score:  0.0297
Raw Text:
into 9 • Lifespan Development three areas: physical development, cognitive development, and psychosocial development. Mirroring Erikson’s stages, lifespan development is divided into different stages that are based on age. We will discuss prenatal, infant, child, adolescent, and adult development. Prenatal Development How did you come to be who you are? From beginning as a one-cell structure to your birth, your prenatal development occurred in an orderly and delicate sequence. There are three stages of prenatal development: germinal, embryonic, and fetal. Let’s take a look at what happens to the developing baby in each of these stages. Germinal Stage (Weeks 1–2) In the discussion of biopsychology earlier in the book, you learned about genetics and DNA. DNA is passed on to the child at the moment of conception. Conception occurs when sperm fertilizes an egg and forms a zygote (Figure 9.7). A zygote begins as a one-cell structure that is created when a sperm and egg merge. The genetic makeup and sex of the zygote are set at this point. During the first week after conception, the zygote divides and multiplies, going from a one-cell structure to two cells, then four cells, then eight cells, and so on. This process of cell division is called mitosis. Mitosis is a fragile process, and fewer than one-half of all zygotes survive beyond the first two weeks (Hall, 2004). After 5 days of mitosis there are 100 cells, and after 9 months there are billions of cells. As the cells divide, they become more specialized, forming different organs and body parts. In the germinal stage, the mass of cells has yet to attach itself to the lining of the mother’s uterus. Once it does, the next stage begins. FIGURE 9.7 Sperm and ovum fuse at the point of conception. Embryonic Stage (Weeks 3–8) After the zygote divides for about 7–10 days and has 150 cells, it travels down the fallopian tubes and implants itself in the lining of the uterus. Upon implantation, this multi-cellular organism is called an embryo. Now blood vessels grow, forming the placenta. The placenta is a structure connected to the uterus that provides nourishment and oxygen from the mother to the developing embryo via the umbilical cord. Basic structures of the embryo start to develop into areas that will become the head, chest, and abdomen. During the embryonic stage, the heart begins to beat and organs form and begin to function. The neural tube forms along the back of the embryo, developing into the spinal cord and brain. Fetal Stage (Weeks 9–40) When the organism is about nine weeks old, the embryo is called a fetus.

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       9.1 What Is Lifespan Development?
Pages:         292-292
Hybrid Score:  0.0297
Raw Text:
9.1 What Is Lifespan Development? LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: Define and distinguish between the three domains of development: physical, cognitive and psychosocial Discuss the normative approach to development Understand the three major issues in development: continuity and discontinuity, one common course of development or many unique courses of development, and nature versus nurture My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky: So was it when my life began; So is it now I am a man; So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The Child is father of the Man; I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety. (Wordsworth, 1802) In this poem, William Wordsworth writes, “the child is father of the man.” What does this seemingly incongruous statement mean, and what does it have to do with lifespan development? Wordsworth might be suggesting that the person he is as an adult depends largely on the experiences he had in childhood. Consider the following questions: To what extent is the adult you are today influenced by the child you once were? To what extent is a child fundamentally different from the adult he grows up to be? These are the types of questions developmental psychologists try to answer, by studying how humans change and grow from conception through childhood, adolescence, adulthood, and death. They view development as a lifelong process that can be studied scientifically across three developmental domains—physical, cognitive, and psychosocial development. Physical development involves growth and changes in the body and brain, the senses, motor skills, and health and wellness. Cognitive development involves learning, attention, memory, language, thinking, reasoning, and creativity. Psychosocial development involves emotions, personality, and social relationships. We refer to these domains throughout the chapter. Research Methods in Developmental Psychology You’ve learned about a variety of research methods used by psychologists. Developmental psychologists use many of these approaches in order to better understand how individuals change mentally and physically over time. These methods include naturalistic observations, case studies, surveys, and experiments, among others. Naturalistic observations involve observing behavior in its natural context. A developmental psychologist might observe how children behave on a playground, at a daycare center, or in the child’s own home. While this research approach provides a glimpse into how children behave in their natural settings, researchers have very little control over the types and/or frequencies of displayed behavior. In a case study, developmental psychologists collect a great deal of information from one individual in order to better understand physical and psychological changes over the lifespan. This particular approach is an excellent way to better understand individuals, who are exceptional in some way, but it is especially prone to researcher bias in interpretation, and it is difficult to generalize conclusions to the larger population.

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       9.1 What Is Lifespan Development?
Pages:         292-293
Hybrid Score:  0.0287
Raw Text:
in order to better understand physical and psychological changes over the lifespan. This particular approach is an excellent way to better understand individuals, who are exceptional in some way, but it is especially prone to researcher bias in interpretation, and it is difficult to generalize conclusions to the larger population. In one classic example of this research method being applied to a study of lifespan development Sigmund Freud analyzed the development of a child known as “Little Hans” (Freud, 1909/1949). Freud’s findings helped inform his theories of psychosexual development in children, which you will learn about later in this chapter. Little Genie, the CONNECT THE CONCEPTS 9 • Lifespan Development subject of a case study discussed in the chapter on thinking and intelligence, provides another example of how psychologists examine developmental milestones through detailed research on a single individual. In Genie’s case, her neglectful and abusive upbringing led to her being unable to speak until, at age 13, she was removed from that harmful environment. As she learned to use language, psychologists were able to compare how her language acquisition abilities differed when occurring in her late-stage development compared to the typical acquisition of those skills during the ages of infancy through early childhood (Fromkin, Krashen, Curtiss, Rigler, & Rigler, 1974; Curtiss, 1981). The survey method asks individuals to self-report important information about their thoughts, experiences, and beliefs. This particular method can provide large amounts of information in relatively short amounts of time; however, validity of data collected in this way relies on honest self-reporting, and the data is relatively shallow when compared to the depth of information collected in a case study. An example of comprehensive survey was the research done by Ruth W. Howard. In 1934, she obtained her doctorate by surveying 229 sets of triplets, the most comprehensive research of triplets completed at the time. This pioneering woman was also the first African- American woman to earn a PhD in psychology (American Psychological Association, 2019). Experiments involve significant control over extraneous variables and manipulation of the independent variable. As such, experimental research allows developmental psychologists to make causal statements about certain variables that are important for the developmental process. Because experimental research must occur in a controlled environment, researchers must be cautious about whether behaviors observed in the laboratory translate to an individual’s natural environment. Later in this chapter, you will learn about several experiments in which toddlers and young children observe scenes or actions so that researchers can determine at what age specific cognitive abilities develop.

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       Summary
Pages:         328-328
Hybrid Score:  0.0167
Raw Text:
motor skills ability to move our body and manipulate objects nature genes and biology newborn reflexes inborn automatic response to a particular form of stimulation that all healthy babies are born with normative approach study of development using norms, or average ages, when most children reach specific developmental milestones nurture environment and culture object permanence idea that even if something is out of sight, it still exists permissive parenting style parents make few demands and rarely use punishment physical development domain of lifespan development that examines growth and changes in the body and brain, the senses, motor skills, and health and wellness placenta structure connected to the uterus that provides nourishment and oxygen to the developing baby prenatal care medical care during pregnancy that monitors the health of both the mother and the fetus preoperational stage second stage in Piaget’s theory of cognitive development; from ages 2 to 7, children learn to use symbols and language but do not understand mental operations and often think illogically primary sexual characteristics organs specifically needed for reproduction psychosexual development process proposed by Freud in which pleasure-seeking urges focus on different erogenous zones of the body as humans move through five stages of life psychosocial development domain of lifespan development that examines emotions, personality, and social relationships psychosocial development process proposed by Erikson in which social tasks are mastered as humans move through eight stages of life from infancy to adulthood resistant attachment characterized by the child’s tendency to show clingy behavior and rejection of the parent when they attempt to interact with the child reversibility principle that objects can be changed, but then returned back to their original form or condition schema (plural = schemata) concept (mental model) that is used to help us categorize and interpret information secondary sexual characteristics physical signs of sexual maturation that do not directly involve sex organs secure attachment characterized by the child using the parent as a secure base from which to explore secure base parental presence that gives the infant/toddler a sense of safety as they explore their surroundings sensorimotor stage first stage in Piaget’s theory of cognitive development; from birth through age 2, a child learns about the world through senses and motor behavior socioemotional selectivity theory social support/friendships dwindle in number, but remain as close, if not more close than in earlier years spermarche first male ejaculation stage of moral reasoning process proposed by Kohlberg; humans move through three stages of moral development temperament innate traits that influence how one thinks, behaves, and reacts with the environment teratogen biological, chemical, or physical environmental agent that causes damage to the developing embryo or fetus uninvolved parenting style parents are indifferent, uninvolved, and sometimes referred to as neglectful; they don’t respond to the child’s needs and make relatively few demands zygote structure created when a sperm and egg merge at conception; begins as a single cell and rapidly divides to form the embryo and placenta Summary 9.1 What Is Lifespan Development? Lifespan development explores how we change and grow from conception to death. This field of psychology is 9 • Summary

