QUERY ID: eval_12
QUESTION: What is the primary function of the sensory systems?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       5.1 Sensation versus Perception
Pages:         158-158
Hybrid Score:  0.0307
Raw Text:
5.1 Sensation versus Perception LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: Distinguish between sensation and perception Describe the concepts of absolute threshold and difference threshold Discuss the roles attention, motivation, and sensory adaptation play in perception Sensation What does it mean to sense something? Sensory receptors are specialized neurons that respond to specific types of stimuli. When sensory information is detected by a sensory receptor, sensation has occurred. For example, light that enters the eye causes chemical changes in cells that line the back of the eye. These cells relay messages, in the form of action potentials (as you learned when studying biopsychology), to the central nervous system. The conversion from sensory stimulus energy to action potential is known as transduction. You have probably known since elementary school that we have five senses: vision, hearing (audition), smell (olfaction), taste (gustation), and touch (somatosensation). It turns out that this notion of five senses is oversimplified. We also have sensory systems that provide information about balance (the vestibular sense), body position and movement (proprioception and kinesthesia), pain (nociception), and temperature (thermoception). The sensitivity of a given sensory system to the relevant stimuli can be expressed as an absolute threshold. Absolute threshold refers to the minimum amount of stimulus energy that must be present for the stimulus to be detected 50% of the time. Another way to think about this is by asking how dim can a light be or how soft can a sound be and still be detected half of the time. The sensitivity of our sensory receptors can be quite amazing. It has been estimated that on a clear night, the most sensitive sensory cells in the back of the eye can detect a candle flame 30 miles away (Okawa & Sampath, 2007). Under quiet conditions, the hair cells (the receptor cells of the inner ear) can detect the tick of a clock 20 feet away (Galanter, 1962). It is also possible for us to get messages that are presented below the threshold for conscious awareness—these are called subliminal messages. A stimulus reaches a physiological threshold when it is strong enough to excite sensory receptors and send nerve impulses to the brain: This is an absolute threshold. A message below that threshold is said to be subliminal: We receive it, but we are not consciously aware of it. Over the years there has been a great deal of speculation about the use of subliminal messages in advertising, rock music, and self-help audio programs. Research evidence shows that in laboratory settings, people can process and respond to information outside of awareness. But this does not mean that we obey these messages like zombies; in fact, hidden messages have little effect on behavior outside the laboratory (Kunst-Wilson & Zajonc, 1980; Rensink, 2004; Nelson, 2008; Radel, Sarrazin, Legrain, & Gobancé, 2009; Loersch, Durso, & Petty, 2013).

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       Chapter 5 Sensation and Perception
Pages:         157-157
Hybrid Score:  0.0301
Raw Text:
FIGURE 5.1 If you were standing in the midst of this street scene, you would be absorbing and processing numerous pieces of sensory input. (credit: modification of work by Cory Zanker) INTRODUCTION CHAPTER OUTLINE 5.1 Sensation versus Perception 5.2 Waves and Wavelengths 5.3 Vision 5.4 Hearing 5.5 The Other Senses 5.6 Gestalt Principles of Perception Imagine standing on a city street corner. You might be struck by movement everywhere as cars and people go about their business, by the sound of a street musician’s melody or a horn honking in the distance, by the smell of exhaust fumes or of food being sold by a nearby vendor, and by the sensation of hard pavement under your feet. We rely on our sensory systems to provide important information about our surroundings. We use this information to successfully navigate and interact with our environment so that we can find nourishment, seek shelter, maintain social relationships, and avoid potentially dangerous situations. This chapter will provide an overview of how sensory information is received and processed by the nervous system and how that affects our conscious experience of the world. We begin by learning the distinction between sensation and perception. Then we consider the physical properties of light and sound stimuli, along with an overview of the basic structure and function of the major sensory systems. The chapter will close with a discussion of a historically important theory of perception called Gestalt. Sensation and Perception

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       Critical Thinking Questions
Pages:         609-609
Hybrid Score:  0.0167
Raw Text:
19. Which of the following is not a primary characteristic of ADHD? short attention span difficulty concentrating and distractibility restricted and fixated interest excessive fidgeting and squirming 20. One of the primary characteristics of autism spectrum disorder is ________. bed-wetting difficulty relating to others short attention span intense and inappropriate interest in others 21. People with borderline personality disorder often ________. try to be the center of attention are shy and withdrawn are impulsive and unpredictable tend to accomplish goals through cruelty 22. Antisocial personality disorder is associated with ________. emotional deficits memory deficits parental overprotection increased empathy Critical Thinking Questions 23. Discuss why thoughts, feelings, or behaviors that are merely atypical or unusual would not necessarily signify the presence of a psychological disorder. Provide an example. 24. Describe the DSM-5. What is it, what kind of information does it contain, and why is it important to the study and treatment of psychological disorders? 25. The International Classification of Diseases (ICD) and the DSM differ in various ways. What are some of the differences in these two classification systems? 26. Why is the perspective one uses in explaining a psychological disorder important? 27. Describe how cognitive theories of the etiology of anxiety disorders differ from learning theories. 28. Discuss the common elements of each of the three disorders covered in this section: obsessive- compulsive disorder, body dysmorphic disorder, and hoarding disorder. 29. List some of the risk factors associated with the development of PTSD following a traumatic event. 30. Describe several of the factors associated with suicide. 31. Why is research following individuals who show prodromal symptoms of schizophrenia so important? 32. The prevalence of most psychological disorders has increased since the 1980s. However, as discussed in this section, scientific publications regarding dissociative amnesia peaked in the mid-1990s but then declined steeply through 2003. In addition, no fictional or nonfictional description of individuals showing dissociative amnesia following a trauma exists prior to 1800. How would you explain this phenomenon? 33. Compare the factors that are important in the development of ADHD with those that are important in the development of autism spectrum disorder. 15 • Critical Thinking Questions

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       Summary
Pages:         114-114
Hybrid Score:  0.0164
Raw Text:
resting potential the state of readiness of a neuron membrane’s potential between signals reticular formation midbrain structure important in regulating the sleep/wake cycle, arousal, alertness, and motor activity reuptake neurotransmitter is pumped back into the neuron that released it semipermeable membrane cell membrane that allows smaller molecules or molecules without an electrical charge to pass through it, while stopping larger or highly charged molecules soma cell body somatic nervous system relays sensory and motor information to and from the CNS somatosensory cortex essential for processing sensory information from across the body, such as touch, temperature, and pain substantia nigra midbrain structure where dopamine is produced; involved in control of movement sulcus (plural: sulci) depressions or grooves in the cerebral cortex sympathetic nervous system involved in stress-related activities and functions synaptic cleft small gap between two neurons where communication occurs synaptic vesicle storage site for neurotransmitters temporal lobe part of cerebral cortex associated with hearing, memory, emotion, and some aspects of language; contains primary auditory cortex terminal button axon terminal containing synaptic vesicles thalamus sensory relay for the brain theory of evolution by natural selection states that organisms that are better suited for their environments will survive and reproduce compared to those that are poorly suited for their environments threshold of excitation level of charge in the membrane that causes the neuron to become active thyroid secretes hormones that regulate growth, metabolism, and appetite ventral tegmental area (VTA) midbrain structure where dopamine is produced: associated with mood, reward, and addiction Wernicke’s area important for speech comprehension Summary 3.1 Human Genetics Genes are sequences of DNA that code for a particular trait. Different versions of a gene are called alleles—sometimes alleles can be classified as dominant or recessive. A dominant allele always results in the dominant phenotype. In order to exhibit a recessive phenotype, an individual must be homozygous for the recessive allele. Genes affect both physical and psychological characteristics. Ultimately, how and when a gene is expressed, and what the outcome will be—in terms of both physical and psychological characteristics—is a function of the interaction between our genes and our environments. 3.2 Cells of the Nervous System Glia and neurons are the two cell types that make up the nervous system. While glia generally play supporting roles, the communication between neurons is fundamental to all of the functions associated with the nervous system. Neuronal communication is made possible by the neuron’s specialized structures.

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       5.6 Gestalt Principles of Perception
Pages:         180-180
Hybrid Score:  0.0161
Raw Text:
in the auditory system, which respond to movement of the head and gravitational forces. When these hair cells are stimulated, they send signals to the brain via the vestibular nerve. Although we may not be consciously aware of our vestibular system’s sensory information under normal circumstances, its importance is apparent when we experience motion sickness and/or dizziness related to infections of the inner ear (Khan & Chang, 2013). FIGURE 5.24 The major sensory organs of the vestibular system are located next to the cochlea in the inner ear. These include the utricle, saccule, and the three semicircular canals (posterior, superior, and horizontal). In addition to maintaining balance, the vestibular system collects information critical for controlling movement and the reflexes that move various parts of our bodies to compensate for changes in body position. Therefore, both proprioception (perception of body position) and kinesthesia (perception of the body’s movement through space) interact with information provided by the vestibular system. These sensory systems also gather information from receptors that respond to stretch and tension in muscles, joints, skin, and tendons (Lackner & DiZio, 2005; Proske, 2006; Proske & Gandevia, 2012). Proprioceptive and kinesthetic information travels to the brain via the spinal column. Several cortical regions in addition to the cerebellum receive information from and send information to the sensory organs of the proprioceptive and kinesthetic systems. 5.6 Gestalt Principles of Perception LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: Explain the figure-ground relationship Define Gestalt principles of grouping Describe how perceptual set is influenced by an individual’s characteristics and mental state In the early part of the 20th century, Max Wertheimer published a paper demonstrating that individuals perceived motion in rapidly flickering static images—an insight that came to him as he used a child’s toy tachistoscope. Wertheimer, and his assistants Wolfgang Köhler and Kurt Koffka, who later became his partners, believed that perception involved more than simply combining sensory stimuli. This belief led to a new movement within the field of psychology known as Gestalt psychology. The word gestalt literally means form or pattern, but its use reflects the idea that the whole is different from the sum of its parts. In other words, the brain creates a perception that is more than simply the sum of available sensory inputs, and it does so in predictable ways. Gestalt psychologists translated these predictable ways into principles by which we organize sensory information. As a result, Gestalt psychology has been extremely influential in the area of sensation 5 • Sensation and Perception and perception (Rock & Palmer, 1990). One Gestalt principle is the figure-ground relationship.

