QUERY ID: eval_9
QUESTION: What is the main difference between learned behaviors and instincts?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       6.1 What Is Learning?
Pages:         194-194
Hybrid Score:  0.0325
Raw Text:
6.1 What Is Learning? LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: Explain how learned behaviors are different from instincts and reflexes Define learning Recognize and define three basic forms of learning—classical conditioning, operant conditioning, and observational learning Birds build nests and migrate as winter approaches. Infants suckle for nurishment. Dogs shake water off wet fur. Salmon swim upstream to spawn, and spiders spin intricate webs. What do these seemingly unrelated behaviors have in common? They all are unlearned behaviors. Both instincts and reflexes are innate (unlearned) behaviors that organisms are born with. Reflexes are a motor or neural reaction to a specific stimulus in the environment. They tend to be simpler than instincts, involve the activity of specific body parts and systems (e.g., the knee-jerk reflex and the contraction of the pupil in bright light), and involve more primitive centers of the central nervous system (e.g., the spinal cord and the medulla). In contrast, instincts are innate behaviors that are triggered by a broader range of events, such as maturation and the change of seasons. They are more complex patterns of behavior, involve movement of the organism as a whole (e.g., sexual activity and migration), and involve higher brain centers. Both reflexes and instincts help an organism adapt to its environment and do not have to be learned. For example, every healthy human baby has a sucking reflex, present at birth. Babies are born knowing how to suck on a nipple, whether artificial (from a bottle) or human. Nobody teaches the baby to suck, just as no one teaches a sea turtle hatchling to move toward the ocean. Learning, like reflexes and instincts, allows an organism to adapt to its environment. But unlike instincts and reflexes, learned behaviors involve change and experience: learning is a relatively permanent change in behavior or knowledge that results from experience. In contrast to the innate behaviors discussed above, learning involves acquiring knowledge and skills through experience. Looking back at our surfing scenario, Julian will have to spend much more time training with his surfboard before he learns how to ride the waves like his father. Learning to surf, as well as any complex learning process (e.g., learning about the discipline of psychology), involves a complex interaction of conscious and unconscious processes. Learning has traditionally been studied in terms of its simplest components—the associations our minds automatically make between events. Our minds have a natural tendency to connect events that occur closely together or in sequence. Associative learning occurs when an organism makes connections between stimuli or events that occur together in the environment.

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       6.3 Operant Conditioning
Pages:         204-205
Hybrid Score:  0.0305
Raw Text:
gets a fish. EVERYDAY CONNECTION 6 • Learning Classical and Operant Conditioning Compared Classical Conditioning Operant Conditioning Conditioning approach An unconditioned stimulus (such as food) is paired with a neutral stimulus (such as a bell). The neutral stimulus eventually becomes the conditioned stimulus, which brings about the conditioned response (salivation). The target behavior is followed by reinforcement or punishment to either strengthen or weaken it, so that the learner is more likely to exhibit the desired behavior in the future. Stimulus timing The stimulus occurs immediately before the response. The stimulus (either reinforcement or punishment) occurs soon after the response. TABLE 6.1 Psychologist B. F. Skinner saw that classical conditioning is limited to existing behaviors that are reflexively elicited, and it doesn’t account for new behaviors such as riding a bike. He proposed a theory about how such behaviors come about. Skinner believed that behavior is motivated by the consequences we receive for the behavior: the reinforcements and punishments. His idea that learning is the result of consequences is based on the law of effect, which was first proposed by psychologist Edward Thorndike. According to the law of effect, behaviors that are followed by consequences that are satisfying to the organism are more likely to be repeated, and behaviors that are followed by unpleasant consequences are less likely to be repeated (Thorndike, 1911). Essentially, if an organism does something that brings about a desired result, the organism is more likely to do it again. If an organism does something that does not bring about a desired result, the organism is less likely to do it again. An example of the law of effect is in employment. One of the reasons (and often the main reason) we show up for work is because we get paid to do so. If we stop getting paid, we will likely stop showing up—even if we love our job. Working with Thorndike’s law of effect as his foundation, Skinner began conducting scientific experiments on animals (mainly rats and pigeons) to determine how organisms learn through operant conditioning (Skinner, 1938). He placed these animals inside an operant conditioning chamber, which has come to be known as a “Skinner box” (Figure 6.10). A Skinner box contains a lever (for rats) or disk (for pigeons) that the animal can press or peck for a food reward via the dispenser. Speakers and lights can be associated with certain behaviors. A recorder counts the number of responses made by the animal. FIGURE 6.10 (a) B.

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       Personal Application Questions
Pages:         223-223
Hybrid Score:  0.0167
Raw Text:
20. Explain how the processes of stimulus generalization and stimulus discrimination are considered opposites. 21. How does a neutral stimulus become a conditioned stimulus? 22. What is a Skinner box and what is its purpose? 23. What is the difference between negative reinforcement and punishment? 24. What is shaping and how would you use shaping to teach a dog to roll over? 25. What is the effect of prosocial modeling and antisocial modeling? 26. Cara is 17 years old. Cara’s mother and father both drink alcohol every night. They tell Cara that drinking is bad and she shouldn’t do it. Cara goes to a party where beer is being served. What do you think Cara will do? Why? Personal Application Questions 27. What is your personal definition of learning? How do your ideas about learning compare with the definition of learning presented in this text? 28. What kinds of things have you learned through the process of classical conditioning? Operant conditioning? Observational learning? How did you learn them? 29. Can you think of an example in your life of how classical conditioning has produced a positive emotional response, such as happiness or excitement? How about a negative emotional response, such as fear, anxiety, or anger? 30. Explain the difference between negative reinforcement and punishment, and provide several examples of each based on your own experiences. 31. Think of a behavior that you have that you would like to change. How could you use behavior modification, specifically positive reinforcement, to change your behavior? What is your positive reinforcer? 32. What is something you have learned how to do after watching someone else? 6 • Personal Application Questions

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       10.1 Motivation
Pages:         335-336
Hybrid Score:  0.0164
Raw Text:
an instinct is a species- 10.1 • Motivation specific pattern of behavior that is not learned. There was, however, considerable controversy among James and his contemporaries over the exact definition of instinct. James proposed several dozen special human instincts, but many of his contemporaries had their own lists that differed. A mother’s protection of her baby, the urge to lick sugar, and hunting prey were among the human behaviors proposed as true instincts during James’s era. This view—that human behavior is driven by instincts—received a fair amount of criticism because of the undeniable role of learning in shaping all sorts of human behavior. In fact, as early as the 1900s, some instinctive behaviors were experimentally demonstrated to result from associative learning (recall when you learned about Watson’s conditioning of fear response in “Little Albert”) (Faris, 1921). FIGURE 10.4 (a) William James proposed the instinct theory of motivation, asserting that behavior is driven by instincts. (b) In humans, instincts may include behaviors such as an infant’s rooting for a nipple and sucking. (credit b: modification of work by "Mothering Touch"/Flickr) Another early theory of motivation proposed that the maintenance of homeostasis is particularly important in directing behavior. You may recall from your earlier reading that homeostasis is the tendency to maintain a balance, or optimal level, within a biological system. In a body system, a control center (which is often part of the brain) receives input from receptors (which are often complexes of neurons). The control center directs effectors (which may be other neurons) to correct any imbalance detected by the control center. According to the drive theory of motivation, deviations from homeostasis create physiological needs. These needs result in psychological drive states that direct behavior to meet the need and, ultimately, bring the system back to homeostasis. For example, if it’s been a while since you ate, your blood sugar levels will drop below normal. This low blood sugar will induce a physiological need and a corresponding drive state (i.e., hunger) that will direct you to seek out and consume food (Figure 10.5). Eating will eliminate the hunger, and, ultimately, your blood sugar levels will return to normal. Interestingly, drive theory also emphasizes the role that habits play in the type of behavioral response in which we engage. A habit is a pattern of behavior in which we regularly engage. Once we have engaged in a behavior that successfully reduces a drive, we are more likely to engage in that behavior whenever faced with that drive in the future (Graham & Weiner, 1996). FIGURE 10.5 Hunger and subsequent eating are the result of complex physiological processes that maintain 10 • Emotion and Motivation homeostasis.

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       Critical Thinking Questions
Pages:         222-222
Hybrid Score:  0.0164
Raw Text:
10. Which of the following is not an example of a primary reinforcer? food money water sex 11. Rewarding successive approximations toward a target behavior is ________. shaping extinction positive reinforcement negative reinforcement 12. Slot machines reward gamblers with money according to which reinforcement schedule? fixed ratio variable ratio fixed interval variable interval 13. The person who performs a behavior that serves as an example is called a ________. teacher model instructor coach 14. In Bandura’s Bobo doll study, when the children who watched the aggressive model were placed in a room with the doll and other toys, they ________. ignored the doll played nicely with the doll played with tinker toys kicked and threw the doll 15. Which is the correct order of steps in the modeling process? attention, retention, reproduction, motivation motivation, attention, reproduction, retention attention, motivation, retention, reproduction motivation, attention, retention, reproduction 16. Who proposed observational learning? Ivan Pavlov John Watson Albert Bandura B. F. Skinner Critical Thinking Questions 17. Compare and contrast classical and operant conditioning. How are they alike? How do they differ? 18. What is the difference between a reflex and a learned behavior? 19. If the sound of your toaster popping up toast causes your mouth to water, what are the UCS, CS, and CR? 6 • Critical Thinking Questions

