QUERY ID: eval_29
QUESTION: What is the normative approach to development?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       9.1 What Is Lifespan Development?
Pages:         293-293
Hybrid Score:  0.0331
Raw Text:
environment, researchers must be cautious about whether behaviors observed in the laboratory translate to an individual’s natural environment. Later in this chapter, you will learn about several experiments in which toddlers and young children observe scenes or actions so that researchers can determine at what age specific cognitive abilities develop. For example, children may observe a quantity of liquid poured from a short, fat glass into a tall, skinny glass. As the experimenters question the children about what occurred, the subjects’ answers help psychologists understand at what age a child begins to comprehend that the volume of liquid remained the same although the shapes of the containers differs. Across these three domains—physical, cognitive, and psychosocial—the normative approach to development is also discussed. This approach asks, “What is normal development?” In the early decades of the 20th century, normative psychologists studied large numbers of children at various ages to determine norms (i.e., average ages) of when most children reach specific developmental milestones in each of the three domains (Gesell, 1933, 1939, 1940; Gesell & Ilg, 1946; Hall, 1904). Although children develop at slightly different rates, we can use these age-related averages as general guidelines to compare children with same-age peers to determine the approximate ages they should reach specific normative events called developmental milestones (e.g., crawling, walking, writing, dressing, naming colors, speaking in sentences, and starting puberty). Not all normative events are universal, meaning they are not experienced by all individuals across all cultures. Biological milestones, such as puberty, tend to be universal, but social milestones, such as the age when children begin formal schooling, are not necessarily universal; instead, they affect most individuals in a particular culture (Gesell & Ilg, 1946). For example, in developed countries children begin school around 5 or 6 years old, but in developing countries, like Nigeria, children often enter school at an advanced age, if at all (Huebler, 2005; United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization [UNESCO], 2013). To better understand the normative approach, imagine two new mothers, Louisa and Kimberly, who are close friends and have children around the same age. Louisa’s daughter is 14 months old, and Kimberly’s son is 12 months old. According to the normative approach, the average age a child starts to walk is 12 months. However, at 14 months Louisa’s daughter still isn’t walking. She tells Kimberly she is worried that something might be wrong with her baby. Kimberly is surprised because her son started walking when he was only 10 months old. Should Louisa be worried?

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       Personal Application Questions
Pages:         332-332
Hybrid Score:  0.0320
Raw Text:
26. Compare and contrast the four parenting styles and describe the kinds of childhood outcomes we can expect with each. 27. What is emerging adulthood and what are some factors that have contributed to this new stage of development? 28. Describe the five stages of grief and provide examples of how a person might react in each stage. 29. What is the purpose of hospice care? Personal Application Questions 30. How are you different today from the person you were at 6 years old? What about at 16 years old? How are you the same as the person you were at those ages? 31. Your 3-year-old daughter is not yet potty trained. Based on what you know about the normative approach, should you be concerned? Why or why not? 32. Explain how you would use your understanding of one of the major developmental theories to deal with each of the difficulties listed below: Your infant daughter puts everything in her mouth, including the dog's food. Your eight-year-old son is failing math; all he cares about is baseball. Your two-year-old daughter refuses to wear the clothes you pick for her every morning, which makes getting dressed a twenty-minute battle. Your sixty-eight-year-old neighbor is chronically depressed and feels they have wasted their life. Your 18-year-old daughter has decided not to go to college. Instead she’s moving to Colorado to become a ski instructor. Your 11-year-old son is the class bully. 33. Which parenting style describes how you were raised? Provide an example or two to support your answer. 34. Would you describe your experience of puberty as one of pride or embarrassment? Why? 35. Your best friend is a smoker who just found out she is pregnant. What would you tell her about smoking and pregnancy? 36. Imagine you are a nurse working at a clinic that provides prenatal care for pregnant women. Your patient, Anna, has heard that it’s a good idea to play music for her unborn baby, and she wants to know when her baby’s hearing will develop. What will you tell her? 37. Have you ever had to cope with the loss of a loved one? If so, what concepts described in this section provide context that may help you understand your experience and process of grieving? 38. If you were diagnosed with a terminal illness would you choose hospice care or a traditional death in a hospital?

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       Summary
Pages:         328-328
Hybrid Score:  0.0308
Raw Text:
motor skills ability to move our body and manipulate objects nature genes and biology newborn reflexes inborn automatic response to a particular form of stimulation that all healthy babies are born with normative approach study of development using norms, or average ages, when most children reach specific developmental milestones nurture environment and culture object permanence idea that even if something is out of sight, it still exists permissive parenting style parents make few demands and rarely use punishment physical development domain of lifespan development that examines growth and changes in the body and brain, the senses, motor skills, and health and wellness placenta structure connected to the uterus that provides nourishment and oxygen to the developing baby prenatal care medical care during pregnancy that monitors the health of both the mother and the fetus preoperational stage second stage in Piaget’s theory of cognitive development; from ages 2 to 7, children learn to use symbols and language but do not understand mental operations and often think illogically primary sexual characteristics organs specifically needed for reproduction psychosexual development process proposed by Freud in which pleasure-seeking urges focus on different erogenous zones of the body as humans move through five stages of life psychosocial development domain of lifespan development that examines emotions, personality, and social relationships psychosocial development process proposed by Erikson in which social tasks are mastered as humans move through eight stages of life from infancy to adulthood resistant attachment characterized by the child’s tendency to show clingy behavior and rejection of the parent when they attempt to interact with the child reversibility principle that objects can be changed, but then returned back to their original form or condition schema (plural = schemata) concept (mental model) that is used to help us categorize and interpret information secondary sexual characteristics physical signs of sexual maturation that do not directly involve sex organs secure attachment characterized by the child using the parent as a secure base from which to explore secure base parental presence that gives the infant/toddler a sense of safety as they explore their surroundings sensorimotor stage first stage in Piaget’s theory of cognitive development; from birth through age 2, a child learns about the world through senses and motor behavior socioemotional selectivity theory social support/friendships dwindle in number, but remain as close, if not more close than in earlier years spermarche first male ejaculation stage of moral reasoning process proposed by Kohlberg; humans move through three stages of moral development temperament innate traits that influence how one thinks, behaves, and reacts with the environment teratogen biological, chemical, or physical environmental agent that causes damage to the developing embryo or fetus uninvolved parenting style parents are indifferent, uninvolved, and sometimes referred to as neglectful; they don’t respond to the child’s needs and make relatively few demands zygote structure created when a sperm and egg merge at conception; begins as a single cell and rapidly divides to form the embryo and placenta Summary 9.1 What Is Lifespan Development? Lifespan development explores how we change and grow from conception to death. This field of psychology is 9 • Summary

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       Critical Thinking Questions
Pages:         331-331
Hybrid Score:  0.0308
Raw Text:
10. Using scissors to cut out paper shapes is an example of ________. gross motor skills fine motor skills large motor skills small motor skills 11. The child uses the parent as a base from which to explore her world in which attachment style? secure insecure avoidant insecure ambivalent-resistant disorganized 12. The frontal lobes become fully developed ________. at birth at the beginning of adolescence at the end of adolescence by 25 years old 13. Who created the very first modern hospice? Elizabeth Kübler-Ross Cicely Saunders Florence Wald Florence Nightingale 14. Which of the following is the order of stages in Kübler-Ross’s five-stage model of grief? denial, bargaining, anger, depression, acceptance anger, depression, bargaining, acceptance, denial denial, anger, bargaining, depression, acceptance anger, acceptance, denial, depression, bargaining Critical Thinking Questions 15. Describe the nature versus nurture controversy, and give an example of a trait and how it might be influenced by each? 16. Compare and contrast continuous and discontinuous development. 17. Why should developmental milestones only be used as a general guideline for normal child development? 18. What is the difference between assimilation and accommodation? Provide examples of each. 19. Why was Carol Gilligan critical of Kohlberg’s theory of moral development? 20. What is egocentrism? Provide an original example. 21. What are some known teratogens, and what kind of damage can they do to the developing fetus? 22. What is prenatal care and why is it important? 23. Describe what happens in the embryonic stage of development. Describe what happens in the fetal stage of development. 24. What makes a personal quality part of someone’s personality? 25. Describe some of the newborn reflexes. How might they promote survival? 9 • Critical Thinking Questions

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       9.1 What Is Lifespan Development?
Pages:         294-295
Hybrid Score:  0.0298
Raw Text:
child, depending on the child’s specific genetics and environment (i.e., there are many courses of development)? Do people across the world share more similarities or more differences in their development? How much do culture and genetics influence a child’s behavior? Stage theories hold that the sequence of development is universal. For example, in cross-cultural studies of language development, children from around the world reach language milestones in a similar sequence (Gleitman & Newport, 1995). Infants in all cultures coo before they babble. They begin babbling at about the same age and utter their first word around 12 months old. Yet we live in diverse contexts that have a unique effect on each of us. For example, researchers once believed that motor development follows one course for all children regardless of culture. However, child care practices vary by culture, and different practices have been found to accelerate or inhibit achievement of developmental milestones such as sitting, crawling, and walking (Karasik, Adolph, Tamis-LeMonda, & Bornstein, 2010). For instance, let’s look at the Aché society in Paraguay. They spend a significant amount of time foraging in 9 • Lifespan Development forests. While foraging, Aché mothers carry their young children, rarely putting them down in order to protect them from getting hurt in the forest. Consequently, their children walk much later: They walk around 23–25 months old, in comparison to infants in Western cultures who begin to walk around 12 months old. However, as Aché children become older, they are allowed more freedom to move about, and by about age 9, their motor skills surpass those of U.S. children of the same age: Aché children are able to climb trees up to 25 feet tall and use machetes to chop their way through the forest (Kaplan & Dove, 1987). As you can see, our development is influenced by multiple contexts, so the timing of basic motor functions may vary across cultures. However, the functions themselves are present in all societies (Figure 9.3). FIGURE 9.3 All children across the world love to play. Whether in (a) Florida or (b) South Africa, children enjoy exploring sand, sunshine, and the sea. (credit a: modification of work by “Visit St. Pete/Clearwater”/Flickr; credit b: modification of work by "stringer_bel"/Flickr) How Do Nature and Nurture Influence Development? Are we who we are because of nature (biology and genetics), or are we who we are because of nurture (our environment and culture)? This longstanding question is known in psychology as the nature versus nurture debate. It seeks to understand how our personalities and traits are the product of our genetic makeup and biological factors, and how they are shaped by our environment, including our guardians, peers, and culture.

