QUERY ID: eval_24
QUESTION: What is the name of the publication manual used by the American Psychological Association?
============================================================

--- Chunk 1 ---
Section:       13.1 What Is Industrial and Organizational Psychology?
Pages:         464-465
Hybrid Score:  0.0167
Raw Text:
as an experimental science (Katzell & Austin, 1992). In addition to their academic positions, these researchers also worked directly for businesses as consultants. When the United States entered World War I in April 1917, the work of psychologists working in this discipline expanded to include their contributions to military efforts. At that time Yerkes was the president of the 25-year-old American Psychological Association (APA). The APA is a professional association in the United States for clinical and research psychologists. Today the APA performs a number of functions including holding conferences, accrediting university degree programs, and publishing scientific journals. Yerkes organized a group under the Surgeon General’s Office (SGO) that developed methods for screening and selecting enlisted men. They developed the Army Alpha test to measure mental abilities. The Army Beta test was a non-verbal form of the test that was administered to illiterate and non-English-speaking draftees. Scott and Bingham organized a group under the Adjutant General’s Office (AGO) with the goal to develop selection methods for officers. They created a catalogue of occupational needs for the Army, essentially a job-description system and a system of performance ratings and occupational skill tests for officers (Katzell & Austin, 1992). After the war, work on personnel selection continued. For example, Millicent Pond researched the selection of factory workers, comparing the results of pre-employment tests with various indicators of job performance (Vinchur & Koppes, 2014). From 1929 to 1932 Elton Mayo (1880–1949) and his colleagues began a series of studies at a plant near Chicago, Western Electric’s Hawthorne Works (Figure 13.4). This long-term project took industrial psychology beyond just employee selection and placement to a study of more complex problems of interpersonal relations, motivation, and organizational dynamics. These studies mark the origin of organizational psychology. They began as research into the effects of the physical work environment (e.g., level of lighting in a factory), but the researchers found that the psychological and social factors in the factory were of more 13 • Industrial-Organizational Psychology interest than the physical factors. These studies also examined how human interaction factors, such as supervisorial style, increased or decreased productivity. FIGURE 13.4 Hawthorne Works provided the setting for several early I-O studies. Analysis of the findings by later researchers led to the term the Hawthorne effect, which describes the increase in performance of individuals who are aware they are being observed by researchers or supervisors (Figure 13.5). What the original researchers found was that any change in a variable, such as lighting levels, led to an improvement in productivity; this was true even when the change was negative, such as a return to poor lighting.

--- Chunk 2 ---
Section:       15.2 Diagnosing and Classifying Psychological Disorders
Pages:         554-554
Hybrid Score:  0.0167
Raw Text:
Some believe that there is no essential criterion or set of criteria that can definitively distinguish all cases of disorder from nondisorder (Lilienfeld & Marino, 1999). In truth, no single approach to defining a psychological disorder is adequate by itself, nor is there universal agreement on where the boundary is between disordered and not disordered. From time to time we all experience anxiety, unwanted thoughts, and moments of sadness; our behavior at other times may not make much sense to ourselves or to others. These inner experiences and behaviors can vary in their intensity, but are only considered disordered when they are highly disturbing to us and/or others, suggest a dysfunction in normal mental functioning, and are associated with significant distress or disability in social or occupational activities. 15.2 Diagnosing and Classifying Psychological Disorders LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of this section, you will be able to: Explain why classification systems are necessary in the study of psychopathology Describe the basic features of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) Discuss changes in the DSM over time, including criticisms of the current edition Identify which disorders are generally the most common A first step in the study of psychological disorders is carefully and systematically discerning significant signs and symptoms. How do mental health professionals ascertain whether or not a person’s inner states and behaviors truly represent a psychological disorder? Arriving at a proper diagnosis—that is, appropriately identifying and labeling a set of defined symptoms—is absolutely crucial. This process enables professionals to use a common language with others in the field and aids in communication about the disorder with the patient, colleagues and the public. A proper diagnosis is an essential element to guide proper and successful treatment. For these reasons, classification systems that organize psychological disorders systematically are necessary. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) Although a number of classification systems have been developed over time, the one that is used by most mental health professionals in the United States is the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), published by the American Psychiatric Association (2013). (Note that the American Psychiatric Association differs from the American Psychological Association; both are abbreviated APA.) The first edition of the DSM, published in 1952, classified psychological disorders according to a format developed by the U.S. Army during World War II (Clegg, 2012). In the years since, the DSM has undergone numerous revisions and editions. The most recent edition, published in 2013, is the DSM-5 (APA, 2013).

--- Chunk 3 ---
Section:       Review Questions
Pages:         606-607
Hybrid Score:  0.0161
Raw Text:
they are impulsive, deceitful, irresponsible, and unburdened by any sense of guilt. Genetic factors and socialization both appear to be important in the origin of antisocial personality disorder. Research has also shown that those with this disorder do not experience emotions the way most other people do. Review Questions 1. In the harmful dysfunction definition of psychological disorders, dysfunction involves ________. the inability of a psychological mechanism to perform its function the breakdown of social order in one’s community communication problems in one’s immediate family all the above 2. Patterns of inner experience and behavior are thought to reflect the presence of a psychological disorder if they ________. are highly atypical lead to significant distress and impairment in one’s life embarrass one’s friends and/or family violate the norms of one’s culture 15 • Review Questions 3. The letters in the abbreviation DSM-5 stand for ________. Diseases and Statistics Manual of Medicine Diagnosable Standards Manual of Mental Disorders Diseases and Symptoms Manual of Mental Disorders Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 4. A study based on over 9,000 U. S. residents found that the most prevalent disorder was ________. major depressive disorder social anxiety disorder obsessive-compulsive disorder specific phobia 5. The diathesis-stress model presumes that psychopathology results from ________. vulnerability and adverse experiences biochemical factors chemical imbalances and structural abnormalities in the brain adverse childhood experiences 6. Dr. Anastasia believes that major depressive disorder is caused by an over-secretion of cortisol. His view on the cause of major depressive disorder reflects a ________ perspective. psychological supernatural biological diathesis-stress 7. In which of the following anxiety disorders is the person in a continuous state of excessive, pointless worry and apprehension? panic disorder generalized anxiety disorder agoraphobia social anxiety disorder 8. Which of the following would constitute a safety behavior? encountering a phobic stimulus in the company of other people avoiding a field where snakes are likely to be present avoiding eye contact worrying as a distraction from painful memories 9. Which of the following best illustrates a compulsion? mentally counting backward from 1,000 persistent fear of germs thoughts of harming a neighbor falsely believing that a spouse has been cheating 10. Research indicates that the symptoms of OCD ________. are similar to the symptoms of panic disorder are triggered by low levels of stress hormones are related to hyperactivity in the orbitofrontal cortex are reduced if people are asked to view photos of stimuli that trigger the symptoms 15 • Review Questions 11.

--- Chunk 4 ---
Section:       12.3 Attitudes and Persuasion
Pages:         426-426
Hybrid Score:  0.0159
Raw Text:
to persuasion works best when the target of persuasion, or the audience, is analytical and willing to engage in processing of the information. From an advertiser’s perspective, what products would be best sold using the central route to persuasion? What audience would most likely be influenced to buy the product? One example is buying a computer. It is likely, for example, that small business owners might be especially influenced by the focus on the computer’s quality and features such as processing speed and memory capacity. The peripheral route is an indirect route that uses peripheral cues to associate positivity with the message (Petty & Cacioppo, 1986). Instead of focusing on the facts and a product’s quality, the peripheral route relies on association with positive characteristics such as positive emotions and celebrity endorsement. For example, having a popular athlete advertise athletic shoes is a common method used to encourage young adults to purchase the shoes. This route to attitude change does not require much effort or information processing. This method of persuasion may promote positivity toward the message or product, but it typically results in less permanent attitude or behavior change. The audience does not need to be analytical or motivated to process the message. In fact, a peripheral route to persuasion may not even be noticed by the audience, for example in the strategy of product placement. Product placement refers to putting a product with a clear brand name or brand identity in a TV show or movie to promote the product (Gupta & Lord, 1998). For example, one season of the reality series American Idol prominently showed the panel of judges drinking out of cups that displayed the Coca-Cola logo. What other products would be best sold using the peripheral route to persuasion? Another example is clothing: A retailer may focus on celebrities that are wearing the same style of clothing. Foot-in-the-door Technique Researchers have tested many persuasion strategies that are effective in selling products and changing 12 • Social Psychology

--- Chunk 5 ---
Section:       Summary
Pages:         76-76
Hybrid Score:  0.0156
Raw Text:
Institutional Review Board (IRB) committee of administrators, scientists, and community members that reviews proposals for research involving human participants inter-rater reliability measure of agreement among observers on how they record and classify a particular event longitudinal research studies in which the same group of individuals is surveyed or measured repeatedly over an extended period of time naturalistic observation observation of behavior in its natural setting negative correlation two variables change in different directions, with one becoming larger as the other becomes smaller; a negative correlation is not the same thing as no correlation observer bias when observations may be skewed to align with observer expectations operational definition description of what actions and operations will be used to measure the dependent variables and manipulate the independent variables opinion personal judgments, conclusions, or attitudes that may or may not be accurate participants subjects of psychological research peer-reviewed journal article article read by several other scientists (usually anonymously) with expertise in the subject matter, who provide feedback regarding the quality of the manuscript before it is accepted for publication placebo effect people's expectations or beliefs influencing or determining their experience in a given situation population overall group of individuals that the researchers are interested in positive correlation two variables change in the same direction, both becoming either larger or smaller random assignment method of experimental group assignment in which all participants have an equal chance of being assigned to either group random sample subset of a larger population in which every member of the population has an equal chance of being selected reliability consistency and reproducibility of a given result replicate repeating an experiment using different samples to determine the research’s reliability sample subset of individuals selected from the larger population single-blind study experiment in which the researcher knows which participants are in the experimental group and which are in the control group statistical analysis determines how likely any difference between experimental groups is due to chance survey list of questions to be answered by research participants—given as paper-and-pencil questionnaires, administered electronically, or conducted verbally—allowing researchers to collect data from a large number of people theory well-developed set of ideas that propose an explanation for observed phenomena validity accuracy of a given result in measuring what it is designed to measure Summary 2.1 Why Is Research Important? Scientists are engaged in explaining and understanding how the world around them works, and they are able to do so by coming up with theories that generate hypotheses that are testable and falsifiable. Theories that stand up to their tests are retained and refined, while those that do not are discarded or modified.

